hey everybody sean mccann is here now I
have just taken a trip down memory lane
by playing the new NBA Jam for the
Nintendo Wii and i'm currently joined by
trey smith creative director on the new
installment of the game Trey how you
doing good thanks alright so my first
question for you is you know from the
outset of development how do you go
about approaching a game like this which
is just so steeped in nostalgia and
memories and people have such strong
feelings about it yeah it's scary when
you really think about it really what we
did early on once we were locked in and
we go we are NBA jam it was really just
kind of identifying all of those little
pieces that made jam what it was you
know everything from the art style the
digitized faces the gameplay the moves
the accessibility the the music the
commentary everything you know it's just
there are so many boxes to tick and our
mantra since day one is be true to jam
and that's what we've been focused on
one of the calling cards of the original
game as you just mentioned was that
bombastic presentation the announcers
the exaggerated visuals how have you
guys sort of maintain those and how have
you also updated that for the new
generation totally you know it's MBA Jam
has always been kind of liked this
highlight reel almost like rock concert
of what the NBA Jam experiences and I
think if see pieces of it it's in the
commentary it's in the music it's in the
effects it's in a crowd it's in the
lighting it's in the animations that
like over-the-top animations when you
catch on fire I mean all those things
are so much about that that NBA Jam
experience and that's the stuff over the
really focusing on the original jam
obviously an arcade game so one of the
big questions is how you go about
translating those original arcade
controls or say you know Super Nintendo
controls for a wii remote you know
motion control capabilities and all that
what sort of ideas did you have at the
outset and what have you settled on
today yeah I'll tell you I started off
with like 18 different gestures of
course like oh and you show up like this
and you do this and you do that really
what what it was was we need to make
sure every single gesture in the game
was intuitive response have been
satisfying it wasn't those three things
and it was moved it to a button you know
the responsiveness in this kind of game
is so important that we wanted to make
sure that everything every gesture that
we did it wasn't a gimmick it was
something that we really truly felt like
enhanced experience and the great thing
about the original NBA jam there aren't
that many controls you know it's the
same you do the same thing on offense as
you do on defense those buttons flip and
it was that simplicity that elegance of
what the original controls that's what
we really latched onto for this new
version you guys added any new abilities
maybe to sort of take advantage of the
new NBA style these days yeah you know
it's a lot of what we were doing was
kind of empowering the the ball carrier
you know the shove is such a powerful
move in Jam we tried to think of it and
come up with some ways of letting that
ball carrier give it arming them against
the shop so we added a spin move so if
you see somebody coming at you and they
keep shoving you down you can anticipate
that shove initiate a spin move and
they'll shove right through you so that
was a big one we did take some keys to
from NBA Showtime that game we feel is
still in the NBA Jam experience because
marked ramallah the original designer
and programmer who's now an employee at
EA and it's been helping us out a great
deal we took the alley-oop so the
alley-oop was in show time that was a
new one
that's such a key component to the co-op
play in Jam so there's that and then we
brought an ankle breaker like a
dribbling move that kind of sends out an
attack that can stumble your defender so
we've got those core Jam stuff but we
wanted to sprinkle in some new stuff as
well it seems so such an obvious
question but I feel compelled to ask
turbo is it bad yes absolutely and it's
a big thing that separates the men from
the boys 2 is how well you manage that
turbo you know it's it's yeah it's a
delicate balance it's a resource
management right and it adds that absent
it will separate the intermediate from
the advanced players on how well you use
interval well I look forward to get back
getting back into the NBA with this
because I was unfortunately a Seattle
Sonics fan and I kind of stole my team
away from me but before I get you down
too much before sending you off one more
question for you when is NBA jam out and
is it we exclusive sure NBA jam is going
to hop on the week in the fall 2010
thank you very much Trey alright so that
is your guys's look at NBA Jam stay
tuned for more coverage leading up to
that release date